=Three-Body=
=Episode 27=
Is everything okay at work?
That's alright.
The teachers are mostly Father's
former students and co-workers.
They are nice to me.
Your mother bears no responsibility
for your father's death.
Whereas your father
clung to his own faith
in a manner that was not healthy
and caused you
and your mother to suffer.
Is that why you and your daughter
never get along with your mother?
I don't oppose Yang Dong to see her.
But Yang Dong
seemed to understand it,
so she never mentioned
her grandmother in front of me.
Just now you said you were going to see
the Red Guard who killed your father.
What did you mean?
Did you want revenge?
I had no intention of revenge.
After all,
on that morning at the Red Coast Base,
(I had taken revenge on all of humanity,)
(including them.)
(I had already despaired
of human civilization.)
(Introducing a higher civilization
in the universe)
(to the human world)
(had finally become
my unwavering ideal.)
The Red Coast Base was dismantled.
How did you contact the ETO?
To be precise,
it wasn't me who contacted them,
but someone else did.
Who?
Half a year after I returned to university,
I received an important project
to design a large
radio astronomy observatory.
♪Not big♪
(For that,
I went out with my project team,)
(and we went to many places)
(to choose the site
for the observatory.)
(Finally, we chose a place with the best
electromagnetic environment,)
(which was a remote mountainous area
in the Northwest.)
You're all tired.
You've been walking all day.
Here you are, drink some water.
Come on, drink some water.
- Thank you.
Thank you.
No.
You're tired.
You take so many instruments.
These things look very advanced.
They are all foreign words.
Professor Ye,
can you all speak foreign languages?
English?
What?
I don't know.
It's a foreign language anyway.
If you guys can speak it,
I'll go and get Bethune down,
the team has something
to discuss with him.
Bethune?
We don't know how to call him,
so we call him that.
Does he treat you?
No.
He's been planting trees
on this back hill for almost three years.
Plant trees?
He says it's for finches,
the ones that are dying out.
Almost there.
We'll get there through these trees.
A foreigner came all the way to China
just to plant a tree.
Isn't there something wrong with him?
Or he has some kind of conspiracy.
Here we are, right here.
Bethune.
Hello.
(There)
(I saw him.)
Hi.
Nice to meet you.
I am Ye Wenjie.
Mike Evans.
Sorry I can't offer you anything to drink.
We're out of coffee a while ago.
There's water, but...
I only have one cup.
No problem.
Ask him what he's doing here.
He was asking what are you
really doing here.
Saving lives.
Save the local lives?
It's true.
The ecological conditions here are...
Why are you all like this?
Saving human lives
is the only noble act?
Or other species ain't significant?
Who gave humans
such a high honor anyway?
No.
Human beings do not need a savior.
They all live a life much
much better than they deserve.
We heard you're trying
to save a type of bird.
Yes.
A swallow.
Specifically, a subspecies
of the Northwest Brown Swallow.
But it has a long scientific name.
It's a little long.
I won't bore you with it.
Every spring,
they follow ancient well-established
migration route themselves.
They nest only here.
But as the trees disappear
year after year,
they can no longer find a home.
When I first discovered the species，
they had less‍‍ than 10,000 left.
If the trend continues,
within five years, they'll be extinct.
Trees I've planted now provide a habitat
for some of them.
The population is rising.
I must plant more trees
and expand this Eden.
May I?
Thank you.
You'd even better see it for yourself.
I see it.
Not that pretty, right?
Of course, they're not
as crowd pleasing as pandas.
Every day on this planet,
some species that
don't draw the attention
of humans go extinct.
You planted all of these trees yourself?
Mostly.
Initially I hired some locals to help out,
but I soon ran out of money.
Saplings and irrigation
are very expensive here.
I can't understand it at all.
Tell him that
he is famous for planting trees here.
The county will reward him.
Tell him to come to the team tomorrow.
He said the government decided to
reward you for planting trees here.
Can they reward me with some hands
to help plant some trees?
What did he say?
He said...
Forget it.
Tell him that
I've informed him.
I have work in the field. I'm leaving.
Why are you not going with him?
Does this interest you?
Were you interested
in the brown swallow
or the man?
It's the reason
why he did these things.
Evans's father is the president
of a multinational oil company.
But he doesn't look like
a billionaire's child at all.
Evans told me something happened
when he was 12 years old.
It was the event
(that changed him forever.)
(Son,)
(do you know how the dinosaurs)
(became extinct in the Cretaceous?)
(Because the asteroid fell to the earth)
(and led the abrupt change
in global climate.)
(And do you know)
(the species on the earth now)
(are going extinct even faster
and more frightening than in the Cretaceous?)
(And now is truly
the age of mass extinction.)
(This is only an insignificant episode
in the process of extinction.)
(We can survive without seabirds,
but we can not survive without oil.)
(Do you know what oil means to us?)
Your birthday present,
that beautiful Ferrari,
and that cruise ship over there,
without oil,
it's just a pile of scrap iron.
If you want to visit your grandfather,
you can get there on my private jet
and cross the ocean in a dozen hours or so.
But without oil, you'd have to tumble
in a sailboat for a month!
This is the rule of civilization.
The priority
is to ensure humans' survival
and their comfortable lifestyle.
Everything else
is secondary.
(In Evans's view,)
(all humans,)
(including his father, are executioners.)
(At that time,)
(I could understand him.)
He had high hopes for me,
and I just didn't
turn out the way he wanted.
After that day, it was like that the eyes
of those dying seabirds were
(staring.)
(That changed my life.)
When I was 13, my father asked me
what I wanted to do when I grow up.
I said
nothing.
I just want to save lives.
You have a big dream.
No.
I only want to save
an endangered species.
It could be
a bird that wasn't very pretty,
a dull butterfly, or a beetle
that no one would even notice.
Later, I studied biology
specialized in birds and insects.
In my eyes, saving
a species of birds and insects
has no difference
from saving a human guy.
This is the basic program of
species egalitarianism.
(This was the first time I heard)
(the species egalitarianism.)
It is a doctrine founded
by Evans himself.
It can also be called a belief.
Its core idea is that
all living species on earth
are born equal.
A simple human being,
a pure human being,
a person with self-awareness.
This is our evaluation of him
at that time.
In Evans's view,
human selfishness and hypocrisy
are the reasons for the delay
in achieving species egalitarianism.
Such a paranoid idealist.
Yes.
As long as humans are alive,
this ideal cannot be realized.
So you don't agree with him.
But, I envy him.
(He let me know that in that age,)
(people)
(could still live like this.)
So you told him about the existence
of the Trisolaran Civilization?
No.
After that, we didn't see each other
for a long time.
The site there was not approved.
We soon returned to Beijing.
(One day three years later,)
(I suddenly received a postcard
from Evans.)
(Postcard of Chinese People's Post)
(Come here,)
(and tell me how to live.)
(So I went back again)
(to that remote
mountain village in the Northwest.)
I won't stop.
If I stop, I will be crazy.
I just walked in
and saw that the trees you planted
have grown very tall.
Are these really meaningful?
I just came back from abroad.
My dad.
My father
died two months ago.
He left me 4.5 billion dollars.
I mean inheritance.
Not even including real estate.
My brother and sister
got 5 million each.
5 million.
It's not what I expected at all.
Maybe, he deeply thought highly of me.
Or
my ideals.
Isn't it a comforting thing
that he supports you?
I also learned another news abroad.
I used to spend a lot of time
around the world
planting trees
where deforestation rates were high.
But for the past two years,
those trees were cut down by more than...
more than 70%.
Years of effort is to be destroyed.
There is no way that
I can beat their logging power.
Every country should have a forest law.
Maybe we should go to the government.
Someone will stop their
uncontrolled logging.
Ye,
do you really think
I'm doing it for a few trees?
I could easily ask them
to stop cutting trees
and plant some more with all my money.
I can make all the yellow soil
be planted with quick growth forests.
That's easy.
But it's meaningless.
The local people,
everything they say here
is a result of poverty.
But I ask you.
Is it any different in the wealthy nations?
(They create their own environments,)
then simply shipped the heavy
polluting industries to the poor nations.
The whole human race
is essentially the same.
As long as civilization
continues to develop,
the brown swallow,
and all the other swallows in this world
sooner or later
go extinct.
It's just
a matter of time.
Do you know why I came to China?
I believe and think that
the idea of species egalitarianism
emerged in the ancient East.
Do you mean Buddhism?
Yes.
See? The focus of Christianity is men.
Even though the other species
were given a place on Noah's ark,
they were never truly given
the same status as humans.
But Buddhism,
Buddhism,
it saves all lives.
So
I came to the East.
But now it turns out
it's the same everywhere.
Yes.
I can understand you.
What can I do now?
Where are the pillars of my life?
I have 4.5 billion dollars
and an international oil company.
So what?
Surly humans have invested
more than 45 billion
in saving endangered species.
(And probably more than 450 billion)
(is already spent in saving
environment for deterioration.)
(But what difference does it make?)
(Civilization continues on its path)
(to destruction of all lives on earth.)
(4.5 billion dollars.)
That is not enough to build
an aircraft carrier.
But even if we build
1,000 aircraft carriers,
it's impossible to stop
the madness of man.
Maybe,
humans can no longer rely on
their own power to change.
But
are there other forces
outside of humans?
If God existed,
he would be dead already.
(Do not answer.)
(Do not answer)
Yes,
there are other forces.
(Then I completely told him)
(about the Red Coast Base
and the Trisolaris.)
So many years have passed,
many details I thought...
I thought I had forgotten.
But in what I just told you,
it all came back to me.
I even remember
(the temperature of the sun
on my face that day.)
♪Snow in the winter, clouds in the sky♪
♪White♪
♪Going to nowhere, deep in the cold♪
(Latitude)
♪Silence♪
♪Can anybody hear me♪
♪Can anybody help me♪
♪Fly away♪
(Come here.)
(I will help you conquer this world.)
(Our civilization is no longer capable of
solving its own problems.)
(We need your force to intervene.)
♪To the place I've never known♪
Ye, no offense.
I can't believe what you said.
After all, it's too
amazing.
I understand.
Luckily,
I have the power to confirm it all.
If what you said is true,
then we are comrades.
After that,
he disappeared for three years
without any news.
I didn't know
if he was really somewhere in the world
to confirm what I had told him,
or how he would confirm it.
One winter three years later,
(I suddenly received an invitation)
(from an unknown university
in Western Europe)
(to be a visiting scholar for six months.)
(After arriving at the airport,)
(a young man came to pick me up.)
(But he didn't take me
out of the airport,)
(but returned to the tarmac.)
(We boarded a helicopter together.)
(The young man told me that)
(the place we were going to)
(was the Second Red Coast Base.)
According to the location and frequency
you gave me,
we received a message from Trisolaran.
Everything you said
has been confirmed.
(The great Trisolaran Interstellar Fleet
has set sail,)
(targeting the solar system,)
and will arrive in 450 years.
What you see now
are the first members of the ETO.
Our ideal is to invite
the Trisolaran Civilization
(to transform human civilization
to curb the madness and evil of human.)
(And make this earth a harmonious,
prosperous)
(and sinless world again.)
More and more people
agree with our ideals.
Our organization
is expanding dramatically.
We have members all over the world.
What I can do?
You will be the Supreme Commander
of the Earth-Trisolaris Movement.
All the warriors of the ETO
recognize your qualifications.
Eliminate human tyranny!
World belongs to Trisolaris!
About the process of the establishment
of the ETO,
this is all I know.
And
the Redemptionists, the Adventists,
the Survivors and their struggle,
you have already known them
in the previous ETO conference.
Do you think the ETO
will deteriorate in the future?
It's just a feeling.
(But at that time,)
(I was unable to make any judgment
beyond the historical perspective.)
If you couldn't judge,
why did you volunteer to join,
and to become their commander?
Did you want to change them?
It turned out
I couldn't.
There was little I could do.
(I thought I could lead the spirit)
(and make up for mistakes.)
(Then I just understood one thing.)
(A quote from Mike Evans)
(has become the motto of the Adventists.)
We don't know what the
extraterrestrial intelligence looks like,
but know humans.
How do you think?
I admit
I had expectations of the Trisolaran.
At the ETO conference,
you mentioned that messages
sent from the Trisolaris to Earth
were intercepted by the Adventists.
What was the content of that?
I don't know.
They are very well organized.
All I know is that
they intercepted the messages.
After the Adventists monopolized
communications with the Trisolaran,
did you set up
the Third Red Coast Base?
I had the plan.
But only finished the receiving part.
(Then the construction stopped.)
(And the equipment and the base
were dismantled.)
(Why?)
(Because there were no more messages)
(coming from the direction
of Alpha Centauri,)
(not on all bands.)
I think you have also confirmed this.
According to what you said,
it means that at least four years ago,
Trisolaris had lost contact with the Earth,
right?
No.
I guessed they changed to another way
to communicate.
And Evans didn't deny it.
Did you change the way
you receive and transmit,
or did you just make it up all the time?
The Lord will come.
Am I qualified to make up?
The Lord has known the entire history
of human civilization.
Don't ask me how I did it.
It is beyond our knowledge.
Can I understand it this way?
That Evans cheated you.
It should be said that
he never confided to me
his true innermost thoughts,
(but only expressed)
(his own sense of mission
to other species on the Earth.)
(I didn't expect that
his hatred for humanity)
(generated by this sense of mission,)
(had reached such an extreme level that)
he regarded the destruction
of human civilization
as his ultimate ideal.
It can be said that this Evans has taken
advantage of Trisolaran Civilization.
It's not just Evans.
(The Adventists want to use
the power of the aliens)
(to destroy humanity.)
(And the Redemptionists
worship the aliens as the God.)
(But the Survivors
belong to the group of people)
(who betrayed their compatriots to live.)
So all of this
is completely inconsistent
with your ideal of using Extraterrestrial Intelligence
to transform human beings.
I lit the fire,
but I couldn't control it.
I thought high civilization meant
the existence of a high morality
that could save the earth.
But unlike you,
Evans wants to destroy humanity.
Is that why
you want to destroy the Adventists?
Have you ever thought that
a man like Evans
would take another way
to destroy mankind,
even if without the clue you provided
about the Extraterrestrial Intelligence?
Maybe.
With a plan to destroy the Adventists,
why not just attack the Judgment Day?
Besides, the Redemptionists' forces
are loyal to you.
You have the power and the ability
to destroy it,
and even take it over.
Lord's messages are stored
on one of the Judgment Day's computers.
(If that ship is attacked,)
(the Adventists
will destroy it in the moment of crisis.)
(Those messages are too important
for us to lose,)
(just as Christianity
can't lose the Bible,)
(and Islam can't lose the Koran.)
I think you will face the same problem.
The Adventists
holds the Lord's message hostage.
We can't do anything
about the Judgment Day.
So what would you like to tell us?
What would you like to suggest?
Nothing.
You refer to the Trisolaris as the Lord,
does it mean that
you've developed a religious attachment
to it like the Redemptionists?
Or maybe you've
converted to Trisolarism?
It's just a habit.
I don't want to
talk about it anymore.
Did the Trisolaris teach the Adventists
some technologies that
above the current level
of human science?
Unlikely.
Because these technologies
are likely to fall into your hands.
The last but also
the most important question.
So far, the Trisolaris
has only sent radio waves
to the Earth?
♪When I woke up in the morning♪
♪Everything is different now♪
♪The world is still out there♪
♪but nobody else is here♪
♪When I woke up in the morning♪
♪I can't find you anymore♪
♪Where you are♪
♪When I woke up in the morning♪
♪Everything is different now♪
♪The world is still out there♪
♪but nobody else is here♪
♪When I woke up in the morning♪
♪I can't find you anymore♪
♪Where you are♪
♪I'll just keep on dreaming♪
♪Until I see you again♪
♪Dreaming♪
♪When I woke up in the morning♪
♪Everything is different now♪
♪The world is still out there♪
♪but nobody else is here♪
♪When I woke up in the morning♪
♪Everything is different now♪
♪Fly away♪
♪To the place I've never been♪
♪Fly away, away, away♪
♪To the place I've never known♪
=Three-Body=